[ADD] Manufacturing: Production analysis (#10133)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/manufacturing/workflows/production_analysis.rst

===================
Production analysis
===================

.. |MO| replace:: :abbr:`MO (manufacturing order)`
.. |MOs| replace:: :abbr:`MOs (manufacturing orders)`

The *production analysis* report provides statistics about products manufactured using Odoo's
*Manufacturing* app. The report is useful when trying to understand production costs, manufacturing
durations, and other important statistics about manufactured products.

To open the production analysis report, navigate to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Reporting
--> Production Analysis`.

> Search... bar
> =============
> 
> The :guilabel:`Search...` bar appears at the top of the :guilabel:`Production Analysis` dashboard.
> Along with its drop-down menu, the :guilabel:`Search...` bar used to refine the statistics shown on
> the production analysis report.

Reviewer: This, perhaps, is just a difference in how we present information. I personally would be a little confused and think the search bar is for searching for keywords or information.

Instead, I'd name this section something like "Filters and groups"

Below is an optional rewording suggestion to focus on what the report is used for.
```suggestion
Filters and groups
=============

In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar at the top of the :guilabel:`Production Analysis` dashboard, various
selections of filters and groupbys are available to refine the statistics and show different information in
the production analysis report.
```

By default, the :guilabel:`Search...` bar includes the :guilabel:`End Date: [current year]` filter,
so that data is only displayed for |MOs| completed within the current calendar year. To remove this
filter, and show older data as well, click the :icon:`oi-close` :guilabel:`(Remove)` button on the
right side of the filter.

To only show the data for a specific product, type the product's name in the :guilabel:`Search...`
bar, and press enter. Multiple products can be entered at the same time, so that only the data for

> those products is shown.

Reviewer: What do you mean by multiple products can be entered at the same time? 
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/b123ccda-ff96-499f-8aae-6adc8bdb5db7)

Do you mean that multiple products can appear in the search results? As it's written, I think I'm interpreting the information as: multiple searches for products can be entered in the search bar

In addition to typing in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to refine the data shown, clicking the
:icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(toggle)` button on the right side of the bar opens a drop-down
menu providing additional refinement options. These are organized into the :icon:`fa-filter`
:guilabel:`Filter`, :icon:`oi-group` :guilabel:`Group By`, and :icon:`fa-adjust`
:guilabel:`Comparison` sections.

.. image:: production_analysis/search-bar.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Search... bar for the production analysis report.

Filters
-------

The :guilabel:`Filters` section of the drop-down menu is used to select the time period for which
production data is displayed. To select a time period, click the :icon:`fa-caret-down`
:guilabel:`(toggle)` button next to :guilabel:`End Date`, and click one of the options.

The time periods to choose from are the three most recent months, each quarter of the current fiscal
year (:guilabel:`Q1`, :guilabel:`Q2`, :guilabel:`Q3`, :guilabel:`Q4`), and the three most recent

> years.

Reviewer: Possibly add a note that additional filter options can be found by clicking the Add Custom Filter option.

Group By
--------

The :guilabel:`Group By` section of the drop-down menu is used to group manufacturing data into
specific categories. This makes each graph type show data based on that category, rather than
individual weeks.

.. example::
   With the bar chart graph type selected, clicking the :guilabel:`Product` option in the
   :guilabel:`Group By` section causes the chart to show one bar for each product, instead of one
   bar for each week during the selected time period.

Comparison

> ----------

Reviewer: Although the pie chart example you showed is quite useful, I personally think comparing between periods is also cool in the pivot table. Perhaps you can include both examples in the doc? 

![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/336b8b06-9812-45f4-9be8-d32ba58cb734)

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. I've updated the copy to clarify that the pivot view can be used as well.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Comparison` section only appears in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar drop-down menu if
   one or more time periods is selected in the :guilabel:`Filters --> End Date` section. This is
   because a time period must be selected, or else there would be nothing to make a comparison to.

   Additionally, the comparison view is meant to be used with the :icon:`fa-pie-chart`
   :guilabel:`(pie chart)` graph type selected. Selecting a comparison period with a different graph
   type enabled does not change the way the data appears on the page.

.. image:: production_analysis/comparison.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The comparison view of the Production Analysis report.

Measures
========

*Measures* are the datasets that can be selected in the production analysis report. Each dataset
represents a specific statistic about |MOs| in the database. Choose a measure by clicking the
:guilabel:`Measures` :icon:`fa-caret-down` button, and selecting one of the following options from
the drop-down menu:

- :guilabel:`Average Component Cost/Unit`: the average cost of the components required to produce
  one unit of the product.

> - :guilabel:`Average Employee Cost/Unit`: the average cost paid to employees to produce one unit of
>   the product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Average Employee Cost/Unit`: the manual labor cost to produce one unit, calculated using the employee's hourly rate and the time spent on operations
```

Author: This is not necessarily true. There are other ways that Odoo computes employee cost, depending on certain configuration options. I think it's a bit too much to explain on this one bullet point though.

> - :guilabel:`Average Subcontracting Cost/Unit`: the average cost of engaging a subcontractor to

Reviewer: engaging?

title again to sort from the highest to the lowest value.

To make the rows of the pivot table display time periods instead of products, begin by clicking the
:icon:`fa-minus-square-o` :guilabel:`Total` button above the product names, which removes the
product rows, and changes the button to appear as :icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`Total`.

Click :icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`Total` to open a popover window showing options for the data
categories that can be displayed. Mouse over the :guilabel:`End Date` line to open a second popover
window showing time periods to choose from. Click one of the time periods, and the table updates to
show one unit of the period for each row.

.. image:: production_analysis/pivot-view.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The pivot view of the Production Analysis report.

Use case: compare products
==========================

One of the best uses for the production analysis report is comparing statistics about two or more
products. This is accomplished by entering the products into the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, then
selecting the necessary measure, filter, and grouping, to see the desired data.

.. example::

>    Toy manufacturer *Tommy's Toys* is trying to reduce their manufacturing operation costs. To

Reviewer: Interesting example written in narrative format!
